let's explore this more with rham Jafari
who's a Communications and advocacy
coordinator for the occupied Palestinian
territory at action a joined us now from
Bethlehem at reham this is a complicated
workaround isn't it uh this Maritime
plan and the US Port concept what's your
reaction to
it h thanks for having me uh and um uh
our reaction that it is
uh having a
sea port or delivering aid until the
construction of sea port is not a
solution it is um uh it is a a long uh
solution that needs a lot of time needs
a lot of logistics the solution there
are existing land Crossing Borders and
uh they have their logistical capacities
that uh uh could uh allow uh
humanitarian Ian Aid to enter Gaza the
uh delivery of a humanitarian Aid to uh
residents of Gaza needs a ceas fire
needs to ensure and to secure H safety
for people who are uh waiting those
humanitarian aids for the safety of Aid
workers and work of a humanitarian
organization H so this is another sign
for the failure of International
Community and you as Administration to
reach and achieve a full and a complete
ceas fire okay so can I just jump in
there I just I just want to get an idea
of of what the challenges are for
Distributing Aid within gazer and even
if there was enough Aid getting in which
is clearly not the case in any way at
the moment how does Aid get around how
do people get their hands on it the
roads are being blown to Pieces how how
does how do you trans if there was a
port how would you transport the aid
from the coast inland where it's
needed so there is many challenges the
first challenge for delivery of a is the
limited quantity that allowed to to Gaza
now less than 100 truck is is in is
entered Gaza Gaza needs now according to
the estimation in Gaza needs more than
1,000 300 trucks each day due to the
increasing needs of the people this is
the if we talk from a a quantity
perspective we have also the destruction
of the roads ER the lack of safety The
Continuous pumping the communication
blackout which imped the coordination
between local and a organization to H
coordinate for the delivery of Aid so
what and lack of fuel which is needed by
the a trucks and uh conv to to to work
and to function to be able to deliver
air to different parts of Gaza there are
many challenging challenges on the
ground but they can't be overcome with a
ceas fire and with a half strong
decision to open all Crossing Borders
are surrounding Gaza I mean land
Crossing Borders surrounding Gaza yeah
okay now there's huge quantities of Aid
outside of Gaza waiting to get in can
you tell us to what degree uh the
Israelis prevent it from going in what
is the process how do they stop
it they stop it the there's a a a
deliberate uh process of hindering the
humanitarian AIDS there is a long hour
of inspection for the aid trucks and
there is a limitation and restriction on
specific items that are not allowed to
inter Gaza like the oxygen cylinders and
some an anesthesia the and some kind of
vegetables they are under the prex of
security reason so there there should be
removal for all the restriction and
limitation on the IDS and in terms of
quantities and qualities and uh kinds
and the two cross two land Crossing
Borders are not enough to deliver the
huge and flows of a humanitarian Aid we
need more land to more land Crossing B
to be open and we need there's a need
for the commercial uh Crossing Borders
to be able to have more flows of a
humanitarian Aid entering Gaza there
needs to be a greater flow reham I'm
sorry I'm just dropping in there because
we need to move on but we do appreciate
uh your contribution to the program
reham Jafari there from action a thank
you thank
you